Let's take a few moments to talk about using FCNs in practice.
An FCN has two components,
the encoder and the decoder.
We mentioned that encoder extracts features that will later be used by the decoder.
This may sound familiar to transfer learning, and it is.
In fact, we can borrow techniques from transfer
learning to accelerate the training of our FCNs.
It's common for the encoder to be pre-trained on ImageNet.
VGG and ResNet are popular choices, as examples.
By applying the first special technique of one by one convolutional layer conversion,
we can complete the encoder portion of the FCN.
The encoder is followed by the decoder,
which uses a second special technique of
transposed convolutional layers to upsample the image.
Then the skip connection via the third special technique is added.
Be careful not to add too many skip connections, though.
It can lead to the explosion in the size of your model.
For example, when using VGG-16 as the encoder,
only the third and the fourth pooling layers are typically used for skip connections.
After all that, we can now train the model end to end.